 You can find an index of all the GURPS bibliographies we have online here. If you spot any broken links or other problems with this page, please report them to webmaster@sjgames.com. The cyberpunk genre has spawned a great many books, movies and other works in just a few years ... and the precursors of cyberpunk were many and varied. Space doesn't allow us to give a detailed bibliography here. Instead, we'll discuss a few of the most important works in each category, and list the rest by name. A title in boldface indicates a particularly significant work. An asterisk indicates a nonfiction title. Beyond a doubt, the seminal work of cyberpunk is William Gibson's
Neuromancer. Along with its first sequel,
Count Zero, it set the tone for the genre. Gibson also originated most of the cyberpunk vocabulary; terms like "cowboy," "black ice," "street samurai" and many others first appeared in his works. The novels and short stories of Bruce Sterling  especially
Schismatrix and the other works set in the same background  have also been very influential in the development of the genre. Many of the titles listed below could not be termed cyberpunk in themselves ... yet they contain significant c-punk elements, and would likely be of interest to a player or GM interested in the genre. For example, consider Aldous Huxley's
Brave New World and C.J. Cherryh's
Cyteen. While their world pictures are in no sense cyberpunk, both contains detailed speculations about the mechanisms, technological and social, of "building" human beings for specific tasks. 1984  George Orwell The Adolescence of P-1  Thomas J. Ryan Aiki  John Gilbert Alien Speedway  Roger Zelazny Alien and
Aliens  Alan Dean Foster Alongside Night  J. Neil Schulman Angel Station  Walter John Williams The Annals of the Heechee  Fredric Pohl The Artificial Kid  Bruce Sterling Borderlands and Bordertown  Terri Windling, editor Brave New World  Aldous Huxley Burning Chrome  William Gibson  Catspaw  Joan Vinge City Come A-Walkin'  John Shirley A Clockwork Orange  Anthony Burgess Cobra, Cobra Bargain and Cobra Strike  Timothy Zahn (collected as The Cobra Trilogy) Colonies in Space  T.A. Heppenheimer* Colony  Ben Bova Company Man  Joe Clifford Faust Computer Lib/Dream Machines  Ted Nelson Count Zero  William Gibson The Cybernetic Samurai  Victor Miln Cyteen  C.J. Cherryh Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep? (Blade Runner)  Philip K. Dick Dr. Adder  K.W. Jeter Dreams of Flesh and Sand and
Dreams of Gods and Men  W.T. Quick Eclipse, Eclipse Penumbra and Eclipse Corona  John Shirley Electric Forest  Tanith Lee Emerald Eyes  Daniel Keys Moran Ender's Game  Orson Scott Card Fahrenheit 451  Ray Bradbury A Fire in the Sun  George Alec Effinger Friday  Robert Heinlein Frontera  Lewis Shiner Future Shock  Alvin Toffler* Giant's Star  James Hogan The Glass Hammer  K.W. Jeter The God Game  Andrew Greeley Gravity's Rainbow  Thomas Pynchon Hardwired  Walter Jon Williams When H.A.R.L.I.E. Was One  David Gerrold The High Frontier  Gerard K. O'Neill* The High Road  Ben Bova The Human Use of Human Beings  Norbert Weiner* Hunter/Victim  Robert Sheckley In the Drift  Michael Swanwick The Iron Dream  Norman Spinrad Islands in the Net  Bruce Sterling Johnny Zed  John Gregory Betancourt Lacey and His Friends  David Drake Lifeburst  Jack Willamson Little Heroes  Norman Spinrad Lord of Light  Roger Zelazny Marooned in Realtime  Vernor Vinge

Masterplay  William F. Wu
The Matrix  John Quarterman*
Max Headroom  Steve Roberts
Megatrends  John Naisbitt*
Memory Wire  Robert Charles Wilson
Mercedes Nights  Michael D. Weaver
Millennium  Ben Bova
Mindhopper  James B. Johnson
Mindkiller  Spider Robinson
Mirrorshades: The Cyberpunk Anthology  Bruce Sterling, editor
Mona Lisa Overdrive  William Gibson
The Mutants are Coming  Isodore Haiblum
Neuromancer  William Gibson
Oath of Fealty  Larry Niven and Jerry Pournelle
The Ophiuchi Hotline  John Varley
Outland  Alan Dean Foster
Proteus Unbound  Charles Sheffield
Psychodrome and
Psychodrome II  Simon Hawke
RoboCop  Ed Naha
Schismatrix  Bruce Sterling
Shockwave Rider  John Brunner
Sight of Proteus  Charles Sheffield
Sleepwalker's World  Gordon Dickson
Silico Sapiens  Joseph Deken
Software  Rudy Rucker
Stand on Zanzibar  John Brunner
Svaha  Charles de Lint
The Taking of Satcon Station  Jim Baen and Barney Cohen
The Tenth Victim  Robert Sheckley
The Third Wave  Alvin Toffler*
This Cybernetic World  V.L. Parsegian*
This Perfect Day  Ira Levin
Time Pressure  Spider Robinson
Tom Paine Maru  L. Neil Smith
Tower to the Sky  Philip C. Jennings
True Names ... and Other Dangers  Vernor Vinge
Vacuum Flowers  Michael Swanwick
Valentina: Soul in Sapphire  Joseph H. Delany and Marc Stiegler
Victim Prime  Robert Sheckley
Voice of the Whirlwind  Walter Jon Williams
Warbots  Harry G. Stine
Web of Angels  John M. Ford
Wetware  Rudy Rucker
Wild Card Run  Sara Stamey
Comic Books and Graphic Novels
The comics show, more than any other medium, the international nature of cyberpunk. The world of the British Judge Dredd is quintessentially cyberpunk, though it is a comic book  little effort is made to be consistent from issue to issue, and many of its elements are deliberately silly. The same could be said of American Flagg in the United States, with, perhaps, less silliness and more satire. The Dirty Pair is a Japanese import set farther in the future than most cyberpunk stories, but the technology and attitude are definitely both cyber and punk!
Akira
American Flagg
Appleseed
Batman: The Dark Knight Returns
Bubblegum Crisis
Cyberpunk
The Dirty Pair
Eagle
Electric Warrior
Grendel
Grey
Haywire
Johnny Nemo Magazine
Judge Dredd
Marshal Law
Outlanders
Shatter
Sonic Disruptors
Those Annoying Post Brothers
Time 2
V for Vendetta
Watchmen
Zenon
Magazines and Electronic Newsletters
Some of these are science fiction and science fiction criticism; others are sources for real-world data for reality checking and further ideas. Some, like the Usenet newsgroups and our own Illuminati Online, are available to anyone with a modem; others (*) have very limited circulation, and just being on their mailing list is a good way to attract official suspicion ...
Not listed here are the mainstream magazines of the computer hobby/industry  but any of them can have appropriate information from time to time.
2600*
Aboriginal SF
Amazing
Analog
Computer Underground Digest (available through Usenet)
Cybertech*
Fantasy & Science Fiction
Illuminati Online
Isaac Asimov's Magazine of Science Fiction
Legion of Doom Technical Journal*
Mondo 2000
Phrack, Inc.*
Reality Hackers*
TAP*
Usenet: alt.hackers and alt.cyberpunk
Movies and Television
Certainly, Blade Runner was the first real cyberpunk movie. It firmly established the "look" of the genre, with its juxtaposition of grime and neon. Max Headroom built on the same images and developed the social background further. It is interesting that "Max" adopted, and helped to popularize, Gibsonesque terms like "black ice." A Clockwork Orange isn't high-tech, but its hellish London, infested with drugs and "droogs," is a perfect c-punk city.
The Abyss
Akira
Alien
Aliens
Android
Blade Runner
Brainstorm
Brazil
Cafe Flesh
Cherry 2000
A Clockwork Orange
Deathwatch
Dead-End Drive-In
Eliminators
Escape from New York
Futureworld
Hands of Steel
Liquid Sky
Logan's Run
Looker
Metropolis
Max Headroom
1984
Outland
Overdrawn at the Memory Bank
Parts: The Clonus Horror
The Questor Tapes
Radioactive Dreams
Repo Man
RoboCop
Rollerball
Runaway
Saturn 3
Scanners
The Six Million Dollar Man
2001: A Space Odyssey
The Terminal Man
THX 1138
Trancers
Tron
Videodrome
Wired to Kill
Westworld


Privacy Policy | Contact Us




 Masterplay  William F. Wu The Matrix  John Quarterman* Max Headroom  Steve Roberts Megatrends  John Naisbitt* Memory Wire  Robert Charles Wilson Mercedes Nights  Michael D. Weaver Millennium  Ben Bova Mindhopper  James B. Johnson Mindkiller  Spider Robinson Mirrorshades: The Cyberpunk Anthology  Bruce Sterling, editor Mona Lisa Overdrive  William Gibson The Mutants are Coming  Isodore Haiblum Neuromancer  William Gibson Oath of Fealty  Larry Niven and Jerry Pournelle The Ophiuchi Hotline  John Varley Outland  Alan Dean Foster Proteus Unbound  Charles Sheffield Psychodrome and
Psychodrome II  Simon Hawke RoboCop  Ed Naha Schismatrix  Bruce Sterling Shockwave Rider  John Brunner Sight of Proteus  Charles Sheffield Sleepwalker's World  Gordon Dickson Silico Sapiens  Joseph Deken Software  Rudy Rucker Stand on Zanzibar  John Brunner Svaha  Charles de Lint The Taking of Satcon Station  Jim Baen and Barney Cohen The Tenth Victim  Robert Sheckley The Third Wave  Alvin Toffler* This Cybernetic World  V.L. Parsegian* This Perfect Day  Ira Levin Time Pressure  Spider Robinson Tom Paine Maru  L. Neil Smith Tower to the Sky  Philip C. Jennings True Names ... and Other Dangers  Vernor Vinge Vacuum Flowers  Michael Swanwick Valentina: Soul in Sapphire  Joseph H. Delany and Marc Stiegler Victim Prime  Robert Sheckley Voice of the Whirlwind  Walter Jon Williams Warbots  Harry G. Stine Web of Angels  John M. Ford Wetware  Rudy Rucker Wild Card Run  Sara Stamey The comics show, more than any other medium, the international nature of cyberpunk. The world of the British Judge Dredd is quintessentially cyberpunk, though it is a comic book  little effort is made to be consistent from issue to issue, and many of its elements are deliberately silly. The same could be said of American Flagg in the United States, with, perhaps, less silliness and more satire. The Dirty Pair is a Japanese import set farther in the future than most cyberpunk stories, but the technology and attitude are definitely both cyber and punk! Akira American Flagg Appleseed Batman: The Dark Knight Returns Bubblegum Crisis Cyberpunk The Dirty Pair Eagle Electric Warrior Grendel Grey Haywire Johnny Nemo Magazine Judge Dredd Marshal Law Outlanders Shatter Sonic Disruptors Those Annoying Post Brothers Time 2 V for Vendetta Watchmen Zenon Some of these are science fiction and science fiction criticism; others are sources for real-world data for reality checking and further ideas. Some, like the Usenet newsgroups and our own Illuminati Online, are available to anyone with a modem; others (*) have very limited circulation, and just being on their mailing list is a good way to attract official suspicion ... Not listed here are the mainstream magazines of the computer hobby/industry  but any of them can have appropriate information from time to time. 2600* Aboriginal SF Amazing Analog Computer Underground Digest (available through Usenet) Cybertech* Fantasy & Science Fiction Illuminati Online Isaac Asimov's Magazine of Science Fiction Legion of Doom Technical Journal* Mondo 2000 Phrack, Inc.* Reality Hackers* TAP* Usenet: alt.hackers and alt.cyberpunk Certainly, Blade Runner was the first real cyberpunk movie. It firmly established the "look" of the genre, with its juxtaposition of grime and neon. Max Headroom built on the same images and developed the social background further. It is interesting that "Max" adopted, and helped to popularize, Gibsonesque terms like "black ice." A Clockwork Orange isn't high-tech, but its hellish London, infested with drugs and "droogs," is a perfect c-punk city. The Abyss Akira Alien Aliens Android Blade Runner Brainstorm Brazil Cafe Flesh Cherry 2000 A Clockwork Orange Deathwatch Dead-End Drive-In Eliminators Escape from New York Futureworld Hands of Steel Liquid Sky Logan's Run Looker Metropolis Max Headroom 1984 Outland Overdrawn at the Memory Bank Parts: The Clonus Horror The Questor Tapes Radioactive Dreams Repo Man RoboCop Rollerball Runaway Saturn 3 Scanners The Six Million Dollar Man 2001: A Space Odyssey The Terminal Man THX 1138 Trancers Tron Videodrome Wired to Kill Westworld  Privacy Policy | Contact Us