In this series, weve talked about the influence of Japanese anime on first-generation cyberpunk and the influence of the early nineties MTV series, Aeon Flux, on second-generation cyberpunk, but theres one comic artist who had more influence over the development of cyberpunk than anyone else: French artist and illustrator, Jean Henri Gaston Giraud (who worked under the name of Moebius).The influence of Heavy Metal magazine in the 70s, on all envelope-pushing sci-fi and fantasy, cannot be overstated. This adult comic art magazine was light-years ahead of its time. Its hard to describe now how innovative, bleeding edge, and shocking it was. And one of the most potent muses haunting its transgressive pages was Moebius.In this video on Cartoonist Kayfabe, Ed Piskor and Jim Rugg discuss the influence of Moebius and Heavy Metal, on comics and sci-fi in general, and specifically on cyberpunk. They pay special attention to the July and August 1977 issues, arguably the most important issues in the magazines history. These two issues feature a number of Moebius comics, but the heart of them is two-part story, The Long Tomorrow, written by Dan OBannon with art by Moebius. That one piece is often cited as a direct influence on Blade Runner, Neuromancer, John Carpenters Escape from New York, and much of the c-punk to follow. Not only was the art hugely influential, but OBannons story mixed gumshoe detective noir with a near futuristic setting, i.e. high-tech, low-life.[Contains cartoon nudity and adult themes]And then, of course, theres The Fifth Element, which is pure Moebius as he and his daughter did the production design for the film.  The influence of Heavy Metal magazine in the 70s, on all envelope-pushing sci-fi and fantasy, cannot be overstated. This adult comic art magazine was light-years ahead of its time. Its hard to describe now how innovative, bleeding edge, and shocking it was. And one of the most potent muses haunting its transgressive pages was Moebius. In this video on Cartoonist Kayfabe, Ed Piskor and Jim Rugg discuss the influence of Moebius and Heavy Metal, on comics and sci-fi in general, and specifically on cyberpunk. They pay special attention to the July and August 1977 issues, arguably the most important issues in the magazines history. These two issues feature a number of Moebius comics, but the heart of them is two-part story, The Long Tomorrow, written by Dan OBannon with art by Moebius. That one piece is often cited as a direct influence on Blade Runner, Neuromancer, John Carpenters Escape from New York, and much of the c-punk to follow. Not only was the art hugely influential, but OBannons story mixed gumshoe detective noir with a near futuristic setting, i.e. high-tech, low-life. [Contains cartoon nudity and adult themes]   And then, of course, theres The Fifth Element, which is pure Moebius as he and his daughter did the production design for the film.   Stop breadboarding and soldering  start making immediately! Adafruits Circuit Playground is jam-packed with LEDs, sensors, buttons, alligator clip pads and more. Build projects with Circuit Playground in a few minutes with the drag-and-drop MakeCode programming site, learn computer science using the CS Discoveries class on code.org, jump into CircuitPython to learn Python and hardware together, TinyGO, or even use the Arduino IDE. Circuit Playground Express is the newest and best Circuit Playground board, with support for CircuitPython, MakeCode, and Arduino. It has a powerful processor, 10 NeoPixels, mini speaker, InfraRed receive and transmit, two buttons, a switch, 14 alligator clip pads, and lots of sensors: capacitive touch, IR proximity, temperature, light, motion and sound. A whole wide world of electronics and coding is waiting for you, and it fits in the palm of your hand.Join 35,000+ makers on Adafruits Discord channels and be part of the community! http://adafru.it/discordHave an amazing project to share? The Electronics Show and Tell is every Wednesday at 7pm ET! To join, head over to YouTube and check out the shows live chat  well post the link there.Join us every Wednesday night at 8pm ET for Ask an Engineer!Follow Adafruit on Instagram for top secret new products, behinds the scenes and more https://www.instagram.com/adafruit/CircuitPython  The easiest way to program microcontrollers  CircuitPython.org Stop breadboarding and soldering  start making immediately! Adafruits Circuit Playground is jam-packed with LEDs, sensors, buttons, alligator clip pads and more. Build projects with Circuit Playground in a few minutes with the drag-and-drop MakeCode programming site, learn computer science using the CS Discoveries class on code.org, jump into CircuitPython to learn Python and hardware together, TinyGO, or even use the Arduino IDE. Circuit Playground Express is the newest and best Circuit Playground board, with support for CircuitPython, MakeCode, and Arduino. It has a powerful processor, 10 NeoPixels, mini speaker, InfraRed receive and transmit, two buttons, a switch, 14 alligator clip pads, and lots of sensors: capacitive touch, IR proximity, temperature, light, motion and sound. A whole wide world of electronics and coding is waiting for you, and it fits in the palm of your hand. Join 35,000+ makers on Adafruits Discord channels and be part of the community! http://adafru.it/discord Have an amazing project to share? The Electronics Show and Tell is every Wednesday at 7pm ET! To join, head over to YouTube and check out the shows live chat  well post the link there. Join us every Wednesday night at 8pm ET for Ask an Engineer! Follow Adafruit on Instagram for top secret new products, behinds the scenes and more https://www.instagram.com/adafruit/  CircuitPython  The easiest way to program microcontrollers  CircuitPython.org Maker Business  How (some) chips get made Wearables  Reduce, Reuse, Recycle… Code Electronics  Zener voltage Python for Microcontrollers  Python on Microcontrollers Newsletter: New Hardware, Python 3.12 Alpha, and much more! #CircuitPython @micropython @ThePSF @Raspberry_Pi Adafruit IoT Monthly  Jellyfish Lanterns, Matter 1.0, and more! Microsoft MakeCode  MakeCode Thank You! EYE on NPI  Maxim’s Himalaya uSLIC Step-Down Power Module #EyeOnNPI @maximintegrated @digikey New Products – Adafruit Industries – Makers, hackers, artists, designers and engineers!  #NewProducts 11/02/2022 Featuring #Adafruit SPI FLASH Breakout – W25Q16 – 16 Mbit / 2 MByte No comments yet. Sorry, the comment form is closed at this time.