 
Sterling // 1999 // 92 Minutes // Rated R
Reviewed by Chief Justice Mike Jackson (Retired) // January 10th, 2000
 

 


addthis_pub             = 'dvdverdict'; 
addthis_logo            = 'https://web.archive.org/web/20081228231709/http://dvdverdict.com/images/newlogo.gif';
addthis_logo_background = 'EFEFFF';
addthis_logo_color      = '666699';
addthis_brand           = 'DVD Verdict';
addthis_options         = 'favorites, email, digg, delicious, myspace, facebook, google, live, more';



  No possession is sacred. No secret is safe. Have you heard of it? Neither had I, until it showed up in my mailbox. New
Rose Hotel is a strange, confusing concoction that undoubtedly will leave no
lasting impression. New Rose Hotel tells the story of two men, Fox and "X"
(Christopher Walken and Willem Dafoe) involved in industrial espionage
(apparently the get-rich-quick scheme of whenever this movie is set). Their
specialty is ensuring the defection of research scientists from one Japanese
mega-corporation to another. Their latest target is Hiroshi, a geneticist who
apparently is next to God himself (or herself, depending on your point of view)
in tinkering with nature. Fox is convinced that a corporation will pay the men
$100 million if they "secure" Hiroshi's services. Fox and X pay a call
girl, Sandii (Asia Argento), $1 million to seduce Hiroshi away from his
lucrative job and his ball-and-chain wife. During their "training
sessions" (consisting of stripping, skinny-dipping, and sex), Sandii and X
fall "in love." That's the only parts of the plot that were completely clear. And that's
about the first fifteen or twenty minutes. The rest of the movie is a
mélange of ambiguous plot revelations and writhing naked flesh. Reviewing
anecdote: the only time I had to examine this movie was an afternoon while my
wife was working on her college homework. So, I plugged in my monitor headphones
and proceeded to watch the movie. About fifteen minutes from the end of the
movie, she moved from the kitchen into the living room to work at the computer.
As she watched the television sans sound, she thought I was watching a porn
movie, intercut with shots of Willem Dafoe fondling (and fondling himself with)
a handgun. When the movie was over, I was not sure how the plot resolved itself.
Walken's character jumps from a balcony for no apparent reason. There's some
sort of a double-cross, and people die at a research facility, but it's never
really spelled out just what happened. It's as if the director, Abel Ferrara,
figured that the plot wasn't important as long as the audience would see
generous quantities of Asia Argento's ample form. Lest you think I have a vendetta against New Rose Hotel, I was
actually looking forward to watching it. Christopher Walken is one of my
favorite character actors. I think he first came to my attention as Michelle
Pfeiffer's creepy boss in Batman
Returns. Since then I have thoroughly enjoyed his performances (brief as
they may be) in Pulp Fiction, True Romance, and Annie Hall
("Can I confess something? I tell you this as an artist, I think you'll
understand." He then goes on to describe a dream of his own fiery death in
a car wreck). I'm not a big fan of Willem Dafoe. He looks too much like Mick
Jagger on a really bad day. I have only seen him in Platoon and Clear And Present Danger, but his
affiliation with dreck like Speed 2 and Body of Evidence keeps me from thinking of
him as a good actor. As the producer's name flashed through the credits, it rang
a bell. Edward R. Pressman has been responsible for bombs like Legionnaire and Street Fighter, but
he has produced several good movies like Reversal Of Fortune and The Crow. Last but not least on the list of the
movie's merits, it is based on a short story by William Gibson. Gibson all but
invented the cyberpunk subgenre, and is also responsible for writing Johnny Mnemonic. So, what went wrong? Simple: not enough attention to the plot, to
characterization, to anything that makes a movie compelling and interesting
other than naked flesh. This is otherwise known as The Fine Line Between Cinema
And Porn. It's no wonder it only screened at an obscure film festival. What's the DVD like? I'll list the positives here, but save the negatives
for the rebuttal witness. For a release from a small label, there is a
considerable array of extras. The menus are nicely designed and intuitive. The
scene access menu has a film clip for each of the 24 chapters. Screenwriter
Christ Zois supplies a commentary track. Biographies are provided for the lead
actors, the supporting actors, the director, the screenwriter, and William
Gibson. It's nice to see that if a studio is going to provide bios, they do it
for more that two people (are you listening, Warner Brothers?). A ten-picture
photo gallery, a trivia game, the theatrical trailer, and the trailers for seven
other Sterling Home Entertainment DVD releases round out the extras. I debated for some time if I should write a review of New Rose Hotel.
If I was going to write a review, I could not be anything less than truthful
about the quality of the movie or of the disc. Sterling is a small company, and
the movies they release do not receive much press. Call it sympathy, call it
rooting for the underdog, but I didn't want to contribute negative press to
sully their small reputation. Besides, who was going to be looking for a review
anyway? The movie made a paltry $20,416 at the U.S. box office. The Internet
Movie Database listed only three other reviews. The only positive thing that
could be said was that Christopher Walken was in it. IMBD's reader's poll gave
it a 4.9 with only 104 votes. Here's my laundry list of complaints with the disc. The movie is presented
in a 1.85:1 non-anamorphic transfer. It has surpassed The Loss of Sexual Innocence as the worst
DVD transfer I have ever seen. It was like watching my old VCR that hasn't been
cleaned in two years. It was pixelated, washed out, the picture looked flat,
dark scenes were excessively noisy (and just about the entire movie was dark
scenes), and the print had perpetual dirt and scratches. The packaging
identifies the audio tracks as Dolby Digital 5.1 and Dolby Surround 2.0. My
player detected the surround track as mere stereo. Only Spanish subtitles are
provided. I consider this a grave offense, for I quite often turn on the
subtitles to catch dialogue that is muddled, like most of the conversations in
New Rose Hotel. To quote The
Fifth Element, "I only speak two languages: English and bad
English." The panoply of extras confirms that quality is better than
quantity. Lastly, I felt I had been duped by the movie's packaging. Imagine that you
walk into your DVD retailer of choice. While you are perusing their selection,
you come across a movie you haven't heard of. Its black-and-blue color scheme
and images of computer code and printed circuit boards make it look like
something akin to The Matrix. The
marketing blurb promises: "Welcome to a brave new world. From acclaimed
writer William Gibson comes an exotic cyberpunk fantasy where technology is the
ultimate game and nobody plays by the rules." Wow, sounds pretty exciting,
huh? It concludes, "Be prepared for a riveting vision of a frightening
future, where global corporations control the world and high stakes industrial
espionage is where the action is." There's nothing vaguely cyberpunk about
New Rose Hotel, other than fake handheld computers with cheesy graphics.
There's nothing "riveting" or "frightening" about the world
the movie fails to portray. There's no sense that corporations control the
world, other than by showing high-rise office buildings. There is zero action in
the movie. The only action is hinted at in a taped phone conversation. What are
we left with? Walken and Dafoe talking, and talking, and ogling naked women,
then talking some more. The only thing on this disc that stuck with me ten minutes after watching the
movie was the trailer for Space Truckers. It had a background score that
sounded very, very familiar. The next day I remembered it was in the trailer for
Alien Resurrection. There. Movie
forgotten. With apologies to Sterling Home Entertainment, I cannot recommend New
Rose Hotel to anyone for either purchase or rental. The disc and the film are sentenced to life in a Turkish prison. At the mercy
of the court, Sterling Home Entertainment's sentence is commuted to one year
probation under the court's stern eye. 
•Montana
•Jacked Up!
•The Crow: Collector's Series
•Excalibur (HD DVD)
 Did we give New Rose Hotel a fair trial? yes / no What's "fair"? Whether positive or negative, our reviews should be unbiased, informative, and critique the material on its own merits. Share your thoughts on this review in the Jury Room 
			•Bottom 100 Discs: #91
 
Studio: Sterling
Video Formats:
•1.85:1 Anamorphic
Audio Formats:
•Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround (English)
•Dolby Digital 2.0 Stereo (English)
Subtitles:
•Spanish
Running Time: 92Minutes
Release Year: 1999
MPAA Rating: Rated R
Genres:
•Action
•Bad Movies
•Science Fiction
 
•Commentary Track
•Talent Files
•Photo Gallery
•Trivia Game
•Eight Trailers
•DVD-ROM features
 
			•IMDb
			•The Online Christopher Walken Fanclub
  
Support DVD Verdict | 
Promote your release | 
Privacy policy | 
Manifesto | 
Contact us
 
Review content copyright © 2000 Mike Jackson; Site design and review layout copyright © 2008 HipClick Designs LLC. All rights reserved.