Cyberpunk and Literature In science fiction circles, "cyberpunk" is a genre that often features countercultural antiheroes trapped in a dehumanizing high-tech future. Its roots extend back to the technical fiction of the 1940s and '50s, but it was years before it matured. The word cyberpunk was coined by writer Bruce Bethke, who wrote a story with that title in 1980. He created the term by combining "cybernetics," the science of replacing human functions with computerized ones, and "punk," the raucous music and nihilistic sensibility that became a youth culture in the 1970s and '80s. Not until the 1984 publication of William Gibson's novel, Neuromancer, however, did "cyberpunk" really take off as a term or a genre. 
                                        These example sentences are selected automatically from various online news sources to reflect current usage of the word 'cyberpunk.' Views expressed in the examples do not represent the opinion of Merriam-Webster or its editors. Send us feedback.
                                     1983, in the meaning defined at sense 1 On ‘Hopepunk,’ ‘Mannerpunk,’... Do you feel optimistic about the future? Well, do ya, punk? Theme music by Joshua Stamper ©2006 New Jerusalem Music/ASCAP Get Word of the Day delivered to your inbox! 
cyberporn
 
cyberpunk
 
cybersafety
 
                                                Cyberpunk. Merriam-Webster.com Dictionary, Merriam-Webster, https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/cyberpunk. Accessed 9 Nov. 2022.                                             Britannica.com: Encyclopedia article about cyberpunk Subscribe to America's largest dictionary and get thousands more definitions and advanced searchad free! 
See Definitions and Examples
 Get Word of the Day daily email! Odd Habits and Quirks You know what it looks like… but what is it called? A daily challenge for crossword fanatics. When each letter can be seen but not heard Some may be more useful than others. One L or two? Look up any year to find out How to use a word that (literally) drives some pe... We're intent on clearing it up Editor Emily Brewster clarifies the difference. "The public is a hot mess" 20 questions to help you score 1600
 Take the quiz Don't be scared to answer these questions about f... Take the quiz You know what it looks like… but what is it cal... Take the quiz Can you outdo past winners of the National Spelli... Take the quiz Learn a new word every day. Delivered to your inbox! OTHER MERRIAM-WEBSTER DICTIONARIES FOLLOW US © 2022 Merriam-Webster, Incorporated