 [if lte IE 9]><body class="ie9"><!

[endif]   [if gte IE 10]><body class="ie"><!

[endif]   Skip to main content    Google Tag Manager (noscript)     End Google Tag Manager (noscript)    Vox homepage   Give   Give   Newsletters   Newsletters   Site search   Search   Vox main menu                Midterm Elections               Even Better               Recode               The Goods               Future Perfect               The Highlight               Crossword               Podcasts               Video               Explainers               Covid               Culture               Politics & Policy               Science & Health               World               Technology               Energy & Environment               Business & Finance             More             Midterm Elections             Even Better             Recode             The Goods             Future Perfect             The Highlight             Crossword             Podcasts             Video             Explainers             Covid             Culture             Politics & Policy             Science & Health             World             Technology             Energy & Environment             Business & Finance  ✕   Keanu Reeves is dating a woman close to his own age.

Why is that so shocking?

Keanu Reeves’s new relationship with artist Alexandra Grant has sparked a debate over ageism.

By  Aja Romano @ajaromano    Nov  6, 2019,  1:10pm EST  Share this story   Share this on Facebook   Share this on Twitter   Share   All sharing options   Share   All sharing options for:   Keanu Reeves is dating a woman close to his own age.

Why is that so shocking?

Reddit   Pocket   Flipboard   Email   Alexandra Grant is dating Keanu Reeves.

You got a problem with that?

Stefanie Keenan/Getty Images for LACMA   Keanu Reeves has a girlfriend, and our hearts are exploding with affection.

And, because this is 2019, so too is online debate about who his girlfriend is, how old she is, and what those details all  mean .

Keanu’s public persona is a bit unusual for Hollywood: He’s seen as a friendly, kind, but essentially private and isolated actor so well-known for his solitude that it’s become a meme.

But the era of “ sad Keanu ” and “ lonely Keanu ” is apparently no more: Over the weekend, following a few weeks of  burgeoning rumors  about his love life, Reeves showed up  at an art gala  in Los Angeles holding hands with his longtime artistic collaborator, Alexandra Grant.

The move prompted a flurry of conversation, most of it centering on the mystery woman’s identity (no, she’s not Helen Mirren, though many people noted a resemblance), and especially her age.

As surprising as it was to see the famously single Reeves appearing in public with a date for the first time in many years, Grant’s flowing silver hair and natural appearance grabbed even more attention.

Unlike many other Hollywood men his age, Reeves is dating an older woman — someone who seems to be roughly within his age range.

Not only did this shocker perpetuate the public’s view of Reeves as a man who has rejected the libertine ways of the typical A-list celeb, but it has stoked debate about why it’s so rare to see older male movie stars acting in age-appropriate ways when it comes to women.

So, who is Alexandra Grant?

Based on what I  gleaned from her CV , she   seems kind of awesome.

She’s an  award-winning artist  known for creating gorgeous word art installations and illustrating Reeves’ 2011 book  Ode to Happiness , about escaping sadness and depression.

She and Reeves co-founded an  art-focused publishing press  in 2017, and she also used her art to start  a charity .

In interviews, Grant  says things like , “I want to live like a ghost.

I want to be light in touch, but really here for a specific purpose.

In a way, the ghost is me,” which is exactly the kind of thing you’d say if you were the kind of person who winds up dating  John Wick .

The pair has known each other for years and their friendship hasn’t been hidden.

But it seems that they just  started dating this spring , based on Grant’s social media posts — only the public didn’t catch on until recently.

As delightful as it is to see the internet’s boyfriend Reeves holding hands with someone at a public event who clearly cares for him, it might be tempting to wonder: Why are we so invested?

Reeves’s popularity aside, this is just another celebrity relationship, right?

Yes and no.

This one in particular is notable for a few reasons.

Age-appropriate Hollywood relationships are so rare that they’ve become subjects of fascination and intrigue   Vox has written before of  Keanu’s unique relationship to pop culture  and to the public, one based on his air of “kind smile masking centuries of loneliness” that makes many of us feel an outsized investment in his happiness.

He’s notoriously  suffered through tragedies  over the years; his personal life has been inextricably tied to what he calls “ grief and loss ,”   so many of his fans are just happy to see him happy.

I don’t know why I’m so happy Keanu Reeves has a girlfriend (who is age appropriate no less).

I don’t know this man personally.

But what happened to him sucks and he deserves some happiness.

We all do.

—  Imani Gandied Yams  (@AngryBlackLady)  November 5, 2019   But Grant is getting just as much attention, if not more, for being the age she is as for being in a relationship with Reeves.

It seems that many people assumed at a glance that the artist was older than Reeves, because of her silver-haired appearance in the viral photos from the Los Angeles event.

In fact, she’s 46 — nearly a decade  younger  than Reeves, who is 55.

Their relationship going viral is a good moment for us all to unpack a bunch of built-in cultural assumptions at once.

Let’s start with Grant’s gray hair.

In reality, people of all genders  start going gray in their 30s  and are at least half-gray by the time they reach age 50.

Yet  stricter beauty standards for women  mean that we generally assume a woman with gray hair must be older — otherwise, wouldn’t she dye those lone gray strands?

Cue people registering confusion about Grant’s hair relative to her age — and subsequent backlash to that confusion.

"Keanu Reeves (55) is seen dating Alexandra Grant (46)" Me: oh wow, he's dating someone?

:sees pic: :checks her age again: THE FUCK IS THAT WOMAN DOING IN HER LIFE THAT'S STRESSING HER THAT MUCH?!

— Predrag Vasiljevic (@PVasiljevic)  November 5, 2019   People are being gross about Alexandra Grant, saying she can’t possibly be 46 because her hair is gray.

I’m 31 and my hair is mostly gray.

Having gray hair at 46 is perfectly normal, y’all are just too used to women not being allowed to age.

— Caroline Mincks (@saucymincks)  November 5, 2019   The amount of people assuming that Keanu’s new girlfriend Alexandra is a “granny” just because she’s got grey hair proves how conditioned women are to appear youthful at all times.

Absolutely appalled by some of the things I’ve seen.

— Lucy Buglass (@LGTHBlog)  November 5, 2019   Anyone wondering why I color my hair just has to look at the execrable comments about Keanu’s (awesome) girlfriend     — Bittersweet     (@GrumpyinBoston)  November 5, 2019   The critiques of Grant’s hair are tied up in expectations of women “aging gracefully” and the many double standards for men and women — which brings us to the debate over Grant’s age.

In a world where women are often portrayed as being deceitful if they make themselves look younger than they are, some onlookers seem to feel deceived by Grant’s silver hair.

(It doesn’t help in this case that Keanu himself is well-known for  appearing not to age .)

Keanu’s girlfriend looks like what I thought a 46 year old woman looked like when I was 6 — HausenHausen The Imitator (@nbaoutsider)  November 5, 2019   It’s interesting, frustrating, and perhaps inevitable that, while Grant is being criticized and scrutinized over her age and her choice to be silver-haired — rather than the fact that she’s apparently a fascinating creator in her own right — Reeves is conversely receiving universal praise for dating a woman “his own age,” even though that woman is still nearly a decade younger than he is.

yes it's awkward that Keanu Reeves dating a 46 year old is seen as an example of an older man dating someone "his own age," but keep in mind that for Keanu to date someone as old as him he'd have to woo the corpse of Cleopatra VII — alexis nedd (@alexisthenedd)  November 5, 2019   of course Keanu has an age-appropriate girlfriend.

he is a Good Man  https://t.co/Rnr3IdPzfG — britt hates (@MissBrittHayes)  November 5, 2019   This praise makes sense superficially.

Keanu  has emerged as America’s sweet, super-respectful, perfect boyfriend in recent years,  especially throughout 2019 .

For him to date an “age-appropriate” woman is entirely in keeping with his persona and reputation as a gentle soul who’s unlike many other Hollywood A-list men of his stature.

Compare him with someone like Leonardo DiCaprio, who has been  widely mocked  for only dating women half his age.

(The tabloids  tell us  that the 44-year-old DiCaprio and his current girlfriend, 22-year-old Camila Morrone, are “pretty serious.”) And then there are men like Dennis Quaid, 65, who made headlines this week for  announcing his engagement  to a 26-year-old PhD student.

Given this environment, it’s no wonder many people are relieved that Reeves is dating someone only nine years younger than he is.

Regardless of the stigma and scrutiny that attach themselves to Grant, Keanu gets to retain his status as a non-problematic fave.

And there’s been plenty of side-conversation about how warped that is, too.

On one hand, I am genuinely super happy for them.

On the other hand...we're actually pausing to marvel at an older man dating someone in his age group.

The bar has got to rise.

https://t.co/Up5FhBloR7 — Frankie Huang   (@ourobororoboruo)  November 5, 2019   There’s no denying that the bar of romantic age-appropriateness is firmly on the floor.

And Keanu’s love life passes muster and mainly garnered public approval.

Even better, it’s warming hearts, just like Keanu himself.

Looks like my crush Keanu is off the market but for some reason I fell in love with him even more.

She’s beautiful and they look great together.

They prob have a deep magical connection that I hope for.

He’s the ideal man n it’s that or nothing with me.❤️  — Kendra Wilkinson (@KendraWilkinson)  November 5, 2019   Seeing Keanu Reeves happy and in love gives me hope for humanity — Ms. Deathwish (@Ms_Deathwish)  November 5, 2019   And he isn’t making much out of the relationship or his partner’s apparent age.

Not that we would expect otherwise.

Reeves continues to live his life out of the public eye, albeit with the curtain pulled back just a bit more than usual.

In the end, anything that makes Keanu happy makes most of his fans happy, which seems like a win for everyone.

So cheers to the new couple — may they be excellent to one another.

Our goal this month      Now is not the time for paywalls.

Now is the time to point out what’s hidden in plain sight (for instance, the hundreds of election deniers on ballots across the country), clearly explain the answers to voters’ questions, and give people the tools they need to be active participants in America’s democracy.

Reader gifts help keep our well-sourced, research-driven explanatory journalism free for everyone.

By the end of September, we’re aiming to add 5,000 new financial contributors to our community of Vox supporters.

Will you help us reach our goal by making a gift today?

Next Up In          Culture            Most Read  Here are 29 new movies to get excited about   Should California be allowed to raise the price of bacon in Florida?

The Instagram capital of the world is a terrible place to be     The Supreme Court is about to decide the fate of millions of pigs          Sign up for the           newsletter       The Weeds  Understand how policy impacts people.

Delivered Fridays.

Thanks for signing up!

Check your inbox for a welcome email.

Email  (required)   Oops.

Something went wrong.

Please enter a valid email and try again.

By submitting your email, you agree to our  Terms  and  Privacy Notice .

You can opt out at any time.

This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google  Privacy Policy  and  Terms of Service  apply.

For more newsletters, check out our  newsletters page .

Subscribe   The Latest   What comes next in Ukraine’s fight against Russia        By  Jonathan Guyer   These spectacular deep-sea creatures live in a potential mining hot spot        By  Benji Jones   Here are 29 new movies to get excited about        By  Alissa Wilkinson   The real source of Puerto Rico’s woes        By  Izzie Ramirez   The 5 types of candidates to watch in the battle for the House        By  Li Zhou   House of the Dragon’s tense, awkward family reunion         By  Aja Romano   Chorus   Terms of Use   Privacy Notice   Cookie Policy   Do Not Sell My Personal Info   Licensing FAQ   Accessibility   Platform Status   Contact   Send Us a Tip   Masthead   About Us   Press Room   Editorial Ethics and Guidelines   Vox Media   Vox Media logo.

Author Login   Advertise with us   Jobs @ Vox Media        © 2022  Vox Media , LLC.

All Rights Reserved   Phonograph     End Phonograph    [if !IE]>     <!

[endif]

