  Loading script asynchronously     Google Tag Manager (noscript)     End Google Tag Manager (noscript)    wallpaper   Menu   We've Got Hollywood Covered   PRO Login     |    Search   Search   TV   Ratings   Reviews   Emmys   Emmys Hot Lists   Movies   Steve Pond   Movie Reviews   Box Office   Toronto   Toronto Video Studio   Sundance   Cannes   Awards   Emmys   Oscars   Steve Pond   Awards Screenings   How I Did It (Video)   Events   TheGrill 2022   Awards Screenings   Past Screenings   Webinars   Power Women Summit 2022   TheGrill: Focus on AVOD   BE Conference 2021   Video   How I Did It   Awards Screenings   PRO   Become a Member   Members Hub   Data & Analysis   Members-Only Video   More   Tech   Culture   Media   CinemaCon   Waxword   Benjamin Svetkey   WrapWomen   UnWrapped podcast   TheWrap-Up podcast   Tech vs. Media podcast   Newsletters   PRO   Login   |        |  Search   Search   ‘The Matrix’ Wanted Sandra Bullock as Neo Before Keanu Reeves Took the Role   Sunday marks the 20th anniversary of ”The Matrix“   Trey Williams  |  March 26, 2019 @ 7:00 PM    Facebook     Twitter     LinkedIn     Email    Before Keanu Reeves landed the lead in “The Matrix,” the producers had such a hard time finding the right man for the role that they briefly considered a woman — and that woman was Sandra Bullock.

Producer Lorenzo di Bonaventura, who fought to get “The Matrix” made at Warner Bros., said the studio insisted on a big name for the Wachowskis’ epic, especially since they had only one prior directing credit prior to their dense, philosophical masterpiece.

He said Bullock, who starred alongside Reeves just a few years earlier in 1994’s “Speed,” was one of several A-listers considered for the part, including Brad Pitt, Leonardo DiCaprio and Will Smith.

“We went out to so many people I don’t remember.

We were getting desperate,” di Bonaventura said.

“We went to Sandy Bullock and said ‘We’ll change Neo to a girl.’ [Producer] Joel Silver and I worked with Sandy on ‘Demolition Man’ and she was and continues to be a very good friend of mine.

It was pretty simple.

We sent her the script to see if she was interested in it.

And if she was interested in it we would try to make the change.”   Also Read:   The Evolution of Sandra Bullock, From 'Speed' to 'Ocean's 8' (Photos)   He added: “It just wasn’t something for her at the time.

So really it didn’t go anywhere.”   Bullock said through a representative that she didn’t recall the specifics of the pitch for “The Matrix,” but that di Bonaventura was always supportive of her career.

She added, however, that ultimately the right person was cast.

In 2009, she  told NBC’s “Today”  that she was also considered for the part of Trinity and regretted not taking it.

The role famously went to Carrie-Anne Moss, and Bullock told “Today”: “It was sexy and great because of Carrie-Anne and Keanu.”   “The Matrix” took years to get off the ground.

Studio executives couldn’t visualize the movie from the script, which di Bonaventura went through at least 11 rewrites.

But the deeply complex film became a hit, grossing $463.5 million worldwide; spawning two sequels and influencing countless other science fiction films.

Things worked out just fine for Reeves, and for Bullock.

A year after “The Matrix” was released, Bullock starred in the Warner Bros. comedy “Miss Congeniality,” which grossed $212.7 million worldwide and earned her a Golden Globe nomination for best actress in a comedy.

Also Read:   Sandra Bullock Says She Considered Leaving Hollywood Over Sexism   “The casting process more often than not leads you to the right place,” Di Bonaventura said.

But the process was long.

“The first movie star who says yes is Brad Pitt, he’s doing ‘Seven Years in Tibet’ and then he’s coming out of it and he’s like ‘I’m way too exhausted to take this on,’ so he’s gone,” di Bonaventura said.

“Then we go to Leonardo [DiCaprio].

He says yes, we have meetings with him and then he goes, ‘You know, I can’t go do another visual effects movie having just finished ‘Titanic,” and he drops out.

Then Will Smith joins it and he drops out.”   Will Smith addressed his short-lived involvement with “The Matrix” on his YouTube channel back in February.

“They came in and they made a pitch for ‘The Matrix’ and, as it turns out, they’re geniuses,” Smith said of his meeting with the Wachowskis.

“But there’s a fine line in a pitch meeting between genius and what I experienced in the meeting.”   Also Read:   Will Smith Explains Why He Turned Down 'The Matrix' to Star in 'Wild Wild West' Instead (Video)   He said he was confused by the pitch, but agreed that Reeves was the right star for the role.

“Keanu [Reeves] was perfect.

Laurence Fishburne was perfect,” Smith said.

“If I had done it then Morpheus wouldn’t have been black, because they were looking at Val Kilmer.”   Di Bonaventura said the producers not only looked to Kilmer, but several others: “We went to Arnold Scwarzeneger hoping he’d say yes for Morpheus.

We to Michael Douglas for Morpheus.”   “Along the way we realized how hard it was what we were doing.

Here were these young guys who had done one movie, and they were going to direct this very hard-to-understand script,” he continued.

“The good news was, Keanu said yes and he was awesome.”   Also Read:   Keanu Reeves Reflects on Turning 50 and His First Acting Gig (Video)   But even then, Di Bonaventura told TheWrap, his bosses at Warner Bros. were uncomfortable green-lighting the film with Reeves as Neo.

That began to change, Di Bonaventura said, when he landed additional financing to ease the studio’s risk and the film added Laurence Fishburne as Morpheus, Hugo Weaving as Agent Smith, and Carrie-Anne Moss as Trinity.

“I don’t think I would change anything.

The bigger the star, the more likely the studio was to say yes.

So we started with the very biggest and got to Keanu and he gave us the momentum,” di Bonaventura said.

“The truth is, that movie rises or falls on those four.”   Please fill out this field.

SIGN UP    Comments   Please fill out this field.

SIGN UP    /.post     /#inner-wrapper     /.site-wrap    Photograph by Irvin Rivera for TheWrap     TheWrap About Us   Advertise   Contact   Careers   Masthead   Newsletters   WrapPRO Login   Subscribe   Team Plan   Learn More   Legal Terms of Service   Privacy Policy   AdChoices   WrapMagazine Cannes   College   Emmys   Oscars   Advertise With Us   Connect Facebook   Instagram   Twitter   LinkedIn   Popular Article Tags   Press Releases   Contact   Advertise With Us   Jobs   Privacy Policy    /.site    x            YOU'VE REACHED YOUR MONTHLY ARTICLE LIMIT.

WANT TO KEEP READING?

SIGN UP FOR OUR FREE DAILY NEWSLETTER, FIRST TAKE   SIGN UP    I agree with TheWrap's Terms of Service and Privacy Policy and provide my consent to receive marketing communications from them.

info                 THANK YOU                FOR SIGNING UP!

overlay-content    Thanks for your                  Loyal readership of  Want to keep reading?

Continue Here   * You have also unlocked a free   7-day Trial Membership to WrapPRO   Learn more about     info     overlay-content           WANT TO GO DEEPER?

SIGN UP NOW  FOR YOUR  7 DAY FREE TRIAL   GO   PRO   TODAY     NO THANKS    Click tracking     mobile sticky banner and out of page ads   		This has been been moved from the header.php file, 		originally below the body tag

