Read Today's Paper Tributes Rewards Subscribe Sign In Read Today's Paper My account Rewards Logout My News Local   City Inner East East Outer East Inner South South East West North West North Albury Wodonga Ballarat Bass Coast Bendigo Geelong Goulburn Valley Mildura Warrnambool Local Footy Local Sport Victoria Breaking News State Election Education Schools Hub Tertiary Early Education Advice Police & Courts Podcasts The Splash Life and Crimes Face Off In Black and White Read Today's Paper Classifieds Tributes National Breaking News Coronavirus New South Wales Northern Territory Queensland South Australia Tasmania Western Australia True Crime Crime in Focus Behind the Scenes Cold Cases Police Tape Our Criminal History Video World Opinion Andrew Bolt Rita Panahi Peta Credlin Shannon Deery Susie O'Brien Andrew Rule James Campbell Terry McCrann Patrick Carlyon Leigh Paatsch In Black and White Mark Robinson Jon Ralph Business Victoria Business Breaking News Barefoot Investor Personal Finance Terry McCrann Entertainment Confidential Page 13 Fiona Byrne Movies Music TV & Radio Competitions Lifestyle Food Fashion Health Travel Technology Online Home Entertainment Environment Gadgets Science Innovation Games Crossword Cryptic Crossword Sudoku Horoscopes Real Estate Home Motoring News New Cars Luxury Advice Pets and Wildlife Stellar SMARTdaily VWeekend Sport AFL AFLW Opinion SuperCoach AFL SuperCoach News Local Footy Teams tips.com.au Cricket BBL SuperCoach BBL SuperCoach News Opinion Women's Cricket Tennis Horse Racing Form Tips Basketball Football A-League EPL NRL Teams Opinion SuperCoach NRL SuperCoach News Origin tips.com.au Ladder More Sports UFC Boxing Golf Netball Motorsport Cycling American Sports Women's Sport Rugby Super Rugby Podcasts Herald Sun Footy AFL SuperCoach Browny's Podcast Live Streams Aussie Rules Basketball Football Netball Water Polo Other Sports No Cookies Please note that by blocking any or all cookies you may not have access to certain features, content or personalization.

For more information see our  Cookie Policy .

To enable cookies, follow the instructions for your browser below.

Facebook App: Open links in External Browser   There is a specific issue with the Facebook in-app browser intermittently making requests to websites without cookies that had previously been set.

This appears to be a defect in the browser which should be addressed soon.

The simplest approach to avoid this problem is to continue to use the Facebook app but not use the in-app browser.

This can be done through the following steps:  1.

Open the settings menu by clicking the hamburger menu in the top right  2.

Choose “App Settings” from the menu  3.

Turn on the option “Links Open Externally” (This will use the device’s default browser)   Enabling Cookies in Internet Explorer 7, 8 & 9  1.

Open the Internet Browser  2.

Click Tools > Internet Options > Privacy > Advanced  3.

Check Override automatic cookie handling  4.

For First-party Cookies and Third-party Cookies click Accept  5.

Click OK and OK   Enabling Cookies in Firefox  1.

Open the Firefox browser  2.

Click Tools > Options > Privacy > Use custom settings for history  3.

Check Accept cookies from sites  4.

Check Accept third party cookies  5.

Select Keep until: they expire  6.

Click OK   Enabling Cookies in Google Chrome  1.

Open the Google Chrome browser  2.

Click Tools > Options > Privacy Options > Under the Hood > Content Settings  3.

Check Allow local data to be set  4.

Uncheck Block third-party cookies from being set  5.

Uncheck Clear cookies  6.

Close all   Enabling Cookies in Mobile Safari (iPhone, iPad)  1.

Go to the Home screen by pressing the Home button or by unlocking your phone/iPad  2.

Select the Settings icon.

3.

Select Safari from the settings menu.

4.

Select ‘accept cookies’ from the safari menu.

5.

Select ‘from visited’ from the accept cookies menu.

6.

Press the home button to return the the iPhone home screen.

7.

Select the Safari icon to return to Safari.

8.

Before the cookie settings change will take effect, Safari must restart.

To restart Safari press and hold the Home button (for around five seconds) until the iPhone/iPad display goes blank and the home screen appears.

9.

Select the Safari icon to return to Safari.

// .widget     // .widget    Subscribe Sign In Membership Subscription packages Group/Corporate subscriptions Herald Sun app Today's Paper Newsletters Rewards About Us About us Meet the team Job Opportunities Code of conduct Subscription FAQs Subscription terms Financial Hardship Policy Contact Us Help & support Story Tips FAQs Letter to the Editor Photo Sales Advertise with us Our News Network The Daily Telegraph The Courier Mail The Advertiser news.com.au The Australian The Mercury Geelong Advertiser The Cairns Post Gold Coast Bulletin Townsville Bulletin The Chronicle NT News The Weekly Times CODE Sports Our Partners Buy Search Sell Classifieds Find Your Local Foxsports Foxtel Hipages Kayo My Tributes Punters odds.com.au racenet.com.au Sky News Coupons Brain Gains Our Apps A NOTE ABOUT RELEVANT ADVERTISING:  We collect information about the content (including ads) you use across this site and use it to make both advertising and content more relevant to you on our network and other sites.

Find out more about our policy and your choices, including how to opt-out.

Sometimes our articles will try to help you find the right product at the right price.

We may receive payment from third parties for publishing this content or when you make a purchase through the links on our sites.

Privacy policy Relevant ads opt-out Cookie policy Terms of use Nationwide News Pty Ltd © 2022.

All times AEDT (GMT +11).

Powered by  WordPress.com VIP   wp_footer start      wp_footer end    bottom/all.esi prod 2021-11-30T07:12:47.322Z 053b79cf4bb5c41d91d641dcd227d2be857dd6d1   2021-10-13T04:17:37.131Z d5d7fe886a879bce8eb16ae3f7ef69846123e51c   adobe pixel not fired     end of bottom/all.esi

