
 
 [if lte IE 9]><body class="ie9"><![endif] 
 [if gte IE 10]><body class="ie"><![endif] 
  BEGIN WAYBACK TOOLBAR INSERT  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 52 captures 
 06 Nov 2019 - 23 Jun 2022 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  NEXT/PREV MONTH NAV AND MONTH INDICATOR  
 
 Dec 
 JAN 
 Jun 
 
  NEXT/PREV CAPTURE NAV AND DAY OF MONTH INDICATOR  
 
 
 03 
 
 
  NEXT/PREV YEAR NAV AND YEAR INDICATOR  
 
 2019 
 2020 
 2021 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 success 
 fail 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   About this capture 
 
 
 
 
 
 COLLECTED BY 
 
 
 
		Organization:  Mark Graham's Archive-IT Collections 
 
 
	  This is a set of web collections curated by Mark Graham using the  Archive-IT  service of the  Internet Archive. 
 
 
They include web captures of the ISKME.org website as well as captures from sites hosted by IGC.org.
 
 
 
These web captures are available to the general public.
 
 
For more information about this collection please feel free to contact Mark via  Send Mail 
 
 
 
 
 Collection:  General Crawls 
 
 
	  Archive-It Partner 1028: Mark Graham - Collection 8332: General Crawls
	 
 
 
 
 
 TIMESTAMPS 
 
 
 
 
 
 The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20200103122302/https://www.vox.com/2019/11/6/20949642/who-is-keanu-reeves-new-girlfriend-alexandra-grant 
 
  END WAYBACK TOOLBAR INSERT  
 Skip to main content 
  Google Tag Manager (noscript)  
 
  End Google Tag Manager (noscript)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Vox homepage 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Follow Vox online: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Log in or sign up 
 
 
 
 Log In 
 
 
 Sign Up 
 
 
 
 
 Site search 
 
 Search 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Vox main menu 
 
 
 
              Open Sourced
              
               
 
 
 
              Recode
              
               
 
 
 
              The Goods
              
               
 
 
 
              Future Perfect
              
               
 
 
 
              The Highlight
              
               
 
 
 
              First Person
              
               
 
 
 
              Podcasts
              
               
 
 
 
              Video
              
               
 
 
 
              Explainers
              
               
 
 
 
              Politics & Policy
              
               
 
 
 
              Culture
              
               
 
 
 
              Science & Health
              
               
 
 
 
              World
              
               
 
 
 
              Identities
              
               
 
 
 
              Energy & Environment
              
               
 
 
 
              Technology
              
               
 
 
 
              Business & Finance
              
               
 
 
 
            More
             
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
            Open Sourced
            
           
 
 
 
            Recode
            
           
 
 
 
            The Goods
            
           
 
 
 
            Future Perfect
            
           
 
 
 
            The Highlight
            
           
 
 
 
            First Person
            
           
 
 
 
            Podcasts
            
           
 
 
 
            Video
            
           
 
 
 
            Explainers
            
           
 
 
 
            Politics & Policy
            
           
 
 
 
            Culture
            
           
 
 
 
            Science & Health
            
           
 
 
 
            World
            
           
 
 
 
            Identities
            
           
 
 
 
            Energy & Environment
            
           
 
 
 
            Technology
            
           
 
 
 
            Business & Finance
            
           
 
 ✕ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Keanu Reeves is dating a woman close to his own age. Why is that so shocking? 
 
 Keanu Reeves’s new relationship with artist Alexandra Grant has sparked a debate over ageism. 
 
 
    
      
        By
         
 Aja Romano @ajaromano 
 
 
 
          Nov  6, 2019,  1:10pm EST
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Share this story 
 
 
 
 
 Share this on Facebook 
 
 
 
 
 
 Share this on Twitter 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Share 
 All sharing options 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Share 
 All sharing options for: 
 Keanu Reeves is dating a woman close to his own age. Why is that so shocking? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Reddit 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Pocket 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Flipboard 
 
 
 
 
 
 Email 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Alexandra Grant is dating Keanu Reeves. You got a problem with that? 
 Stefanie Keenan/Getty Images for LACMA 
 
 
 
 Keanu Reeves has a girlfriend, and our hearts are exploding with affection. And, because this is 2019, so too is online debate about who his girlfriend is, how old she is, and what those details all  mean . 
 Keanu’s public persona is a bit unusual for Hollywood: He’s seen as a friendly, kind, but essentially private and isolated actor so well-known for his solitude that it’s become a meme. But the era of “ sad Keanu ” and “ lonely Keanu ” is apparently no more: Over the weekend, following a few weeks of  burgeoning rumors  about his love life, Reeves showed up  at an art gala  in Los Angeles holding hands with his longtime artistic collaborator, Alexandra Grant. 
 The move prompted a flurry of conversation, most of it centering on the mystery woman’s identity (no, she’s not Helen Mirren, though many people noted a resemblance), and especially her age. As surprising as it was to see the famously single Reeves appearing in public with a date for the first time in many years, Grant’s flowing silver hair and natural appearance grabbed even more attention. Unlike many other Hollywood men his age, Reeves is dating an older woman — someone who seems to be roughly within his age range. Not only did this shocker perpetuate the public’s view of Reeves as a man who has rejected the libertine ways of the typical A-list celeb, but it has stoked debate about why it’s so rare to see older male movie stars acting in age-appropriate ways when it comes to women. 
 So, who is Alexandra Grant? Based on what I  gleaned from her CV , she   seems kind of awesome. She’s an  award-winning artist  known for creating gorgeous word art installations and illustrating Reeves’ 2011 book  Ode to Happiness , about escaping sadness and depression. She and Reeves co-founded an  art-focused publishing press  in 2017, and she also used her art to start  a charity . 
 In interviews, Grant  says things like , “I want to live like a ghost. I want to be light in touch, but really here for a specific purpose. In a way, the ghost is me,” which is exactly the kind of thing you’d say if you were the kind of person who winds up dating  John Wick . 
 The pair has known each other for years and their friendship hasn’t been hidden. But it seems that they just  started dating this spring , based on Grant’s social media posts — only the public didn’t catch on until recently. As delightful as it is to see the internet’s boyfriend Reeves holding hands with someone at a public event who clearly cares for him, it might be tempting to wonder: Why are we so invested? Reeves’s popularity aside, this is just another celebrity relationship, right?  
 Yes and no. This one in particular is notable for a few reasons.  
 Age-appropriate Hollywood relationships are so rare that they’ve become subjects of fascination and intrigue 
 Vox has written before of  Keanu’s unique relationship to pop culture  and to the public, one based on his air of “kind smile masking centuries of loneliness” that makes many of us feel an outsized investment in his happiness. He’s notoriously  suffered through tragedies  over the years; his personal life has been inextricably tied to what he calls “ grief and loss ,”   so many of his fans are just happy to see him happy. 
 
 
 I don’t know why I’m so happy Keanu Reeves has a girlfriend (who is age appropriate no less). I don’t know this man personally. But what happened to him sucks and he deserves some happiness. We all do.    —  Imani Gandied Yams  (@AngryBlackLady)  November 5, 2019 
 
 
 
 But Grant is getting just as much attention, if not more, for being the age she is as for being in a relationship with Reeves. It seems that many people assumed at a glance that the artist was older than Reeves, because of her silver-haired appearance in the viral photos from the Los Angeles event. In fact, she’s 46 — nearly a decade  younger  than Reeves, who is 55. Their relationship going viral is a good moment for us all to unpack a bunch of built-in cultural assumptions at once.  
 Let’s start with Grant’s gray hair. In reality, people of all genders  start going gray in their 30s  and are at least half-gray by the time they reach age 50. Yet  stricter beauty standards for women  mean that we generally assume a woman with gray hair must be older — otherwise, wouldn’t she dye those lone gray strands? Cue people registering confusion about Grant’s hair relative to her age — and subsequent backlash to that confusion. 
 
 
 "Keanu Reeves (55) is seen dating Alexandra Grant (46)" Me: oh wow, he's dating someone? :sees pic: :checks her age again: THE FUCK IS THAT WOMAN DOING IN HER LIFE THAT'S STRESSING HER THAT MUCH?! — Predrag Vasiljevic (@PVasiljevic)  November 5, 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 People are being gross about Alexandra Grant, saying she can’t possibly be 46 because her hair is gray. I’m 31 and my hair is mostly gray. Having gray hair at 46 is perfectly normal, y’all are just too used to women not being allowed to age. — Caroline Mincks (@saucymincks)  November 5, 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 The amount of people assuming that Keanu’s new girlfriend Alexandra is a “granny” just because she’s got grey hair proves how conditioned women are to appear youthful at all times. Absolutely appalled by some of the things I’ve seen. — Lucy Buglass (@LGTHBlog)  November 5, 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 Anyone wondering why I color my hair just has to look at the execrable comments about Keanu’s (awesome) girlfriend     — Bittersweet     (@GrumpyinBoston)  November 5, 2019 
 
 
 
 The critiques of Grant’s hair are tied up in expectations of women “aging gracefully” and the many double standards for men and women — which brings us to the debate over Grant’s age. In a world where women are often portrayed as being deceitful if they make themselves look younger than they are, some onlookers seem to feel deceived by Grant’s silver hair. (It doesn’t help in this case that Keanu himself is well-known for  appearing not to age .) 
 
 
 Keanu’s girlfriend looks like what I thought a 46 year old woman looked like when I was 6 — HausenHausen The Imitator (@nbaoutsider)  November 5, 2019 
 
 
 
 It’s interesting, frustrating, and perhaps inevitable that, while Grant is being criticized and scrutinized over her age and her choice to be silver-haired — rather than the fact that she’s apparently a fascinating creator in her own right — Reeves is conversely receiving universal praise for dating a woman “his own age,” even though that woman is still nearly a decade younger than he is.  
 
 
 yes it's awkward that Keanu Reeves dating a 46 year old is seen as an example of an older man dating someone "his own age," but keep in mind that for Keanu to date someone as old as him he'd have to woo the corpse of Cleopatra VII — alexis nedd (@alexisthenedd)  November 5, 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 of course Keanu has an age-appropriate girlfriend. he is a Good Man  https://t.co/Rnr3IdPzfG — britt hates (@MissBrittHayes)  November 5, 2019 
 
 
 
 This praise makes sense superficially.  Keanu  has emerged as America’s sweet, super-respectful, perfect boyfriend in recent years,  especially throughout 2019 . For him to date an “age-appropriate” woman is entirely in keeping with his persona and reputation as a gentle soul who’s unlike many other Hollywood A-list men of his stature. Compare him with someone like Leonardo DiCaprio, who has been  widely mocked  for only dating women half his age. (The tabloids  tell us  that the 44-year-old DiCaprio and his current girlfriend, 22-year-old Camila Morrone, are “pretty serious.”) And then there are men like Dennis Quaid, 65, who made headlines this week for  announcing his engagement  to a 26-year-old PhD student.  
 Given this environment, it’s no wonder many people are relieved that Reeves is dating someone only nine years younger than he is. Regardless of the stigma and scrutiny that attach themselves to Grant, Keanu gets to retain his status as a non-problematic fave.   And there’s been plenty of side-conversation about how warped that is, too. 
 
 
 On one hand, I am genuinely super happy for them. On the other hand...we're actually pausing to marvel at an older man dating someone in his age group. The bar has got to rise. https://t.co/Up5FhBloR7 — Frankie Huang   (@ourobororoboruo)  November 5, 2019 
 
 
 
 There’s no denying that the bar of romantic age-appropriateness is firmly on the floor. And Keanu’s love life passes muster and mainly garnered public approval. Even better, it’s warming hearts, just like Keanu himself.  
 
 
 Looks like my crush Keanu is off the market but for some reason I fell in love with him even more. She’s beautiful and they look great together. They prob have a deep magical connection that I hope for. He’s the ideal man n it’s that or nothing with me.❤️  — Kendra Wilkinson (@KendraWilkinson)  November 5, 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 Seeing Keanu Reeves happy and in love gives me hope for humanity — Ms. Deathwish (@Ms_Deathwish)  November 5, 2019 
 
 
 
 And he isn’t making much out of the relationship or his partner’s apparent age. Not that we would expect otherwise. Reeves continues to live his life out of the public eye, albeit with the curtain pulled back just a bit more than usual.  
 In the end, anything that makes Keanu happy makes most of his fans happy, which seems like a win for everyone. So cheers to the new couple — may they be excellent to one another.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    Next Up In
    
         Culture 
 
 
 
 Culture in the 2010s was obsessed with finding community — and building walls 
 
 
 Fandom went mainstream in the 2010s — for better and worse 
 
 
 Game of Thrones’ final season told flattering lies about wanting power 
 
 
 Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker’s co-writer thinks he told Rose Tico’s complete story in barely over a minute 
 
 
 In 2016, the Ghostbusters reboot didn’t change movies. But the backlash was a bad omen. 
 
 
 Why we can’t stop fighting about cancel culture 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
            Most Read
           
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Killing Qassem Suleimani changes the game in the Middle East 
 But has Trump really thought out what comes next? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 US airstrike kills Iranian Gen. Qassem Suleimani: what we know 
 A major escalation in tensions between the US and Iran. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The reason carry-on luggage became such a hassle 
 Airlines are adding more overhead space, but it probably won’t make much of a difference. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 A deceptively edited video of Joe Biden illustrates a big problem in 2020 
 Biden’s comments in a viral video seemed more likely to be heard at a Trump rally, but the context was stripped out. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Processed foods are a much bigger health problem than we thought 
 They’ve been linked to disease and overeating. Could our microbiome explain why? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        Sign up for the
        
          newsletter
        
       
      Future Perfect
     
 
 
 
 
 Email  (required) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Zip Code 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        By signing up, you agree to our  Privacy Notice  and European users agree to the data transfer policy.
        For more newsletters, check out our  newsletters page .
       
 Subscribe 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The Latest 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Killing Qassem Suleimani changes the game in the Middle East 
 
 
    
      
        By
         
 Daniel Byman 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 US airstrike kills Iranian Gen. Qassem Suleimani: what we know 
 
 
    
      
        By
         
 Libby Nelson 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Vox Sentences: New year, new rules 
 
 
    
      
        By
         
 Hannah Brown 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Amazon threatened to fire employees who spoke out against its environmental policies 
 
 
    
      
        By
         
 Shirin Ghaffary 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Republicans call for overturning Roe v. Wade in Supreme Court filing  
 
 
    
      
        By
         
 Katelyn Burns 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Trump spent his holidays retweeting QAnon and Pizzagate accounts 
 
 
    
      
        By
         
 Aaron Rupar 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Chorus 
 
 
 
 
 Terms of Use 
 Privacy Notice 
 Cookie Policy 
 Communications Preferences 
 Licensing FAQ 
 Accessibility 
 Platform Status 
 
 
 Contact 
 Send Us a Tip 
 Masthead 
 About Us 
 Do not sell my info 
 Editorial Ethics and Guidelines 
 
 
 
 Vox Media 
 Vox Media logo. 
 Advertise with us 
 Jobs @ Vox Media 
      
      © 2020  Vox Media , LLC. All Rights Reserved
      
      
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Share this story 
 
 
 
 
 
              Twitter
             
 
 
 
 
 
 
              Facebook
             
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Phonograph  
 
 
  End Phonograph  
 
 
