
 
 
 
 
 Skip to main content Skip to navigation Advertisement US edition US edition UK edition Australia edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian: news website of the year Search jobs  Sign in Search News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show More Show More News US news World news Environment Soccer US politics Business Tech Science Newsletters Fight to vote Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA NHL F1 Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Lifestyle Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search Search Make a contribution Subscribe Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Puzzles app Guardian content licensing site The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Corrections Facebook Twitter Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Puzzles app Guardian content licensing site Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games The 25 best sci-fi and fantasy films of all time Science fiction and fantasy films The Matrix: No 13 best sci-fi and fantasy film of all time The Wachowskis, 1999   Keanu Reeves in The Matrix. Photograph: PR Keanu Reeves in The Matrix. Photograph: PR Stuart Heritage @   stuheritage Thu 21 Oct 2010 06.42 EDT T he Matrix is a teenage boy's dream. There's action, fighting, cutting-edge special effects, murderous robots, evil authority figures, an overriding pseudo-conspiracy theory and, most wonderful of all, an ineloquent social outcast who eventually becomes a flying kung fu Jesus. What's missing? Girls in skin-tight PVC catsuits? Nope – The Matrix has those, too. By cherry-picking as many key ingredients from action films as they could (the us-against-the-machines mentality from The Terminator, the wire work from Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon and the star from Johnny Mnemonic), and shooting it through with a timely dose of pre-millennial unease, the directors single-handedly managed to reinvigorate an entire genre. The sight of Arnold Schwarzenegger lunkheadedly charging through armies of ineffectual goons started to look embarrassingly tired. The Matrix marks the point where fans demanded more – they wanted to see themselves on screen. And that's why the casting of  Keanu Reeves  was a masterstroke. He might be pretty, but he's no one-man army. Plus: Neo is totally an anagram of "One". Woah. Topics Science fiction and fantasy films The 25 best sci-fi and fantasy films of all time Keanu Reeves The Matrix features Reuse this content Most viewed Most viewed Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Contact us Complaints & corrections SecureDrop Work for us Privacy policy Cookie policy Terms & conditions Help All topics All writers Digital newspaper archive Facebook YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Twitter Newsletters Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Back to top ©    2022    Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (modern) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  no recipe markup  
 
