
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Sign Up Log In 
 
 
 
 Search 
 
 
 
 
 News 
 
 Videos 
 
 
 Features 
 Trailers 
 Defending Your Movie 
 Half-Good 
 Besties 
 Remake Rematch 
 Subscriber 
 BOWL 
 
 
 
 
 
 Browse 
 
 
 Awards 
 TV Series 
 Movies 
 People 
 Characters 
 Clichés 
 Objects 
 Concepts 
 Locations 
 
 
 
 
 Reviews 
 
 Parker Review  Crisp, Efficient B Movie Is Just Right For VOD Hansel and Gretel: Witch Hunters Review  Even Dumber Than You're Expecting Broken City Review  Contemporary Riff On "Chinatown" That Isn't In Its League Gangster Squad Review  Theme Park Version of LA Confidential, The Untouchables and Other Real Movies 
 All Reviews 
 
 
 Upcoming 
 Podcast 
 
 Users 
 
 
 Top Users 
 Newest Users 
 Activity Feed 
 User Lists 
 FAQ 
 Mods 
 Staff 
 
 
 
 
 Help 
 
 
 Paid Accounts 
 Wiki Tasks 
 Site FAQ 
 Mod Images 
 
 
 
 
 Forums 
 
 
 Main forums 
 My Favorites 
 General Discussion 
 Upcoming Movies 
 Hidden Gems 
 Off-Topic 
 DVD 
 Editing & Tools 
 Bug Reporting 
 Quests 
 TV 
 Screencast 
 Popular Forums 
 My Little Pony: Friendship Is Magic 
 Kick-Ass 2 
 Time Shift 
 Batman Forever 
 We the Peeples 
 The Lone Ranger 
 Pacific Rim 
 At the Movies 
 Xena: Warrior Princess 
 Dredd 
 Joel Schumacher 
 Hello I Must Be Going 
 The Best Exotic Marigold Hotel 
 The Purge 
 House of Cards 
 Rosie Perez 
 Buffy the Vampire Slayer 
 Tyler Perry's A Madea Christmas 
 At the Movies 
 Yellow Sky 
 Another Happy Day 
 For a Good Time, Call... 
 You're Next 
 Georgia King 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Community Showcase: February 4th 
 It's the Community Showcase and the week Community Premieres. Communities Unite! 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Community Showcase: February 4th 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Trailer: "Community" Season 4 
 "I remember when this show used to be about a Community College"  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Trailer: "Community" Season 4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 VIDEO: Bad Ass Digest - Marvel Phase 2 
 Devin Faraci takes a look at Marvel Phase 2 and where it is going now  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 VIDEO: Bad Ass Digest - Marvel Phase 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 What to Watch: Weekend 
 This weekend it's all about the pigskin as the Sunday series go on hiatus to escape getting crushed by the biggest game of the year 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 What to Watch: Weekend 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Screened News 
 
 RSS 
 Email Us a Story 
 
 
 
 
        
            Under The Influence: The Matrix 
        
     
 A look at what made The Matrix such an influential piece of filmmaking. 
 
        By  Andrew Godoski   |  May 12, 2011
        
     
 
 
 Tweet 
 
 
 
 Whoa... The intersection of religion and sci-fi has proven time and
again to be an extremely powerful marriage in the world of filmmaking. The
picture that I’m taking a look at today is a prime example of that. It also happens to be one
of the most influential sci-fi films of recent memory.  The Matrix  was a game changer in many respects and its legacy is
still felt and seen today. As always, we'll start with the basics.  The Matrix  was released in 1999 and distributed by Warner Bros. powerhouse producer,  Joel Silver , was a driving
force behind the film that was written and directed by The Wachowskis and stars
 Keanu Reeves ,  Laurence Fishburne ,  Carrie-Anne Moss , and  Hugo Weaving . It was a
critical and financial success, taking in over $463 million worldwide. It also become the first DVD to sell over three million copies in the
United States. With the millions and millions of DVDs and Blu-Rays that are sold in today's market, that is a feat that is too often taken for granted. But now that we’ve got all of that out of the
way, let’s see how deep this rabbit hole really goes. Making  The Matrix 
was a huge gamble for Warner Bros. They had entrusted $60 million dollars to
“two schmucks from Chicago,” who had an idea that no one outside of them completely understood. Even better, the big special effects they sought to make use of had never been
done before. With all these risks, you might be wondering how the movie even got made in
the first place. It all started out with the script for  Assassins . During this period of time,  Lorenzo di Bonaventura  was the president
of production at Warner Bros. He read  Assassins 
in 1994 and immediately signed The Wachowskis to a three-picture deal. On a quick side note,  Assassins  was heavily
rewritten by another writer before it went into production. Anyway, the two other scripts The
Wachowskis sold as part of their deal were  Bound 
and  The Matrix . The team went on to
direct  Bound , which became a critical
hit. Using that momentum,  The Wachowskis  had a little more leverage when they asked to
direct  The Matrix . Do you feel lucky, punk? Joel Silver was on board by this time and his name was a big
boost to the project, but what most people overlook is just how big of a part  Lorenzo di
Bonaventura  played in all of this. He didn’t receive a credit on the film, but
he was a huge supporter of the project from the start and fought tirelessly to get it
made. Even with these two backing them, The Wachowskis needed something more to present the
studio with, so they had detailed storyboards for the entire film created. That,
coupled with everyone’s excitement about the project, finally swayed the studio to fork over the
dough. The decision was made to film in Australia, because their budget
would go a lot further there than in the States. One of the requirements for actors on the film was that they had to
be able to explain  The Matrix.  They also had to agree to intense physical training as part of their preparation. Will Smith was originally interested in
playing  Neo,  but the part eventually
went to  Keanu Reeves . Everyone always gives Keanu a lot of shit, but a
couple years back I got to check out a tribute screening of  The Matrix  that he attended and walked away extremely impressed with the man. He ended up waxing philosophical about all of the ideas at play in the film.
It was pretty mesmerizing to listen to and proved that this was a guy who
really understood all of the nuances in the script. (He also reportedly  gave away the bulk of his salary  for the last two films to the costume and special effects crews.)Here's a quick snippet of an intro he did for the film on that night (and, yes, I know he flubs the word synthesized): Could you imagine
anyone but Keanu as Neo? Think about how different of a film this would have
been with Will Smith. And just for fun, here’s another tidbit…  Val Kilmer  was
originally offered the role of Morpheus, but passed on the project. Perhaps what everyone remembers most about  The Matrix  are the amazing effects and
stylized fight sequences. The Wachowskis have long been admirers of Hong
Kong cinema and it’s pretty easy to see the influence those pictures had on
their work. Famed Chinese director and martial arts choreographer,  Woo-Ping , was
hired to work on the project. Here’s a quote from exec producer  Barrie Osborne 
on the differences in Western and Eastern fight choreography: "Most American stunt work uses rams or
pneumatics to project a person through the air at a certain speed. With wire-stunt
work, the stunts are far more controlled and very stylized. It's almost like
puppeteering, but using a real person. It takes tremendous skill and
finesse." Actors were required to train intensively for months on end
to prepare. Hugo Weaving even had to undergo surgery on his hip after suffering
an injury during pre-production. The resulting wire stunts and fluid martial arts action had a heavy
influence on fight scenes that followed as many films made use of the same
techniques. If you take a look at films that came after  The Matrix , you can see a shift to a
more Eastern approach in the choreography of fight scenes in many of these works. Here’s a small video
showing some of the behind the scenes footage, and, as you’ll see, the
prep work the actors put in really paid off: The second part in this equation, of course, is special
effects. Two names that should be mentioned are  John Gaeta , visual effects
supervisor of  The Matrix , and the
film’s director of photography,  Bill Pope . Simply put, the “bullet time”
effects seen in  The Matrix  were
spectacular and utterly groundbreaking. The effect was achieved by setting
up over one hundred still cameras along a mapped out path to capture the action
sequences. The frames were then uploaded onto a computer and an animation
process of sorts followed. Instead of attempting to explain it all to you myself,
I’ll let the actual man behind the process take care of that: The slow-mo effects approached the equivalent of 12,000
frames per second. Compare that to the normal 24 fps of film and that number is
especially staggering. Many films tried to mimic some form the extreme slow-motion
and smooth camera moves seen in  The
Matrix,  as did many video games.  Max
Payne  is one of the many clear-cut examples of that. Now,  The Matrix 
itself was heavily influenced by many different sources. The world of cyberpunk and
authors Phillip K. Dick and William Gibson were clearly on the mind of The
Wachowskis .  And on that same note,  Ghost in the Shell  was also a very
strong influence on the film with  The
Wachowskis  stating that they “wanted to do that for real” in making  The Matrix . Before I go any further, I
should point out that there have been claims that the directing team took ideas
seen in previous materials such as Grant Morrison’s  The Invisibles  and  Doctor Who 
among other things. There was even a big Internet rumor about Sophia Stewart
winning a lawsuit over the film. Notice how I said rumor, because that’s all
that one was. The case was thrown
out, and if you don’t believe me you can  look it up yourself . Science-fiction has always
had a lot of overlap in terms of ideas, so I don’t think it’s fair to cry foul
unless there’s some form of clear proof. It's no secret that people often draw from the same influences. I have no idea what the hell he's talking about. Moving on, the philosophy at play in  The Matrix  is simply mind-boggling. They actually devoted an entire disc to
it in  The Ultimate Matrix Collection 
box set. I’m not even going to try to delve too deep into any of it, because if I
did this article would quickly turn into a 300 page thesis. But, I’ll touch on one
idea really quickly. The premise of  The
Matrix  can be tied into Plato’s “Allegory of the Cave.” Keeping this
extremely basic, Plato likened people who were uneducated in his Theory of
Forms (which is in very, very simplistic terms, the idea that the true essence or definition of an object isn’t what we perceive with our eyes, but rather the
quality that makes it that object, i.e. what makes a table a table... that is its true form) to being chained in a cave. A
fire glows behind them and they see the shadows of objects passing along the
wall, but not the actual objects themselves. These people perceive the shadows
as reality and thus do not know the true form of the objects. They are
prisoners to this false perception of reality. Sound strikingly familiar?
Again, this barely scratches the surface, but it goes to show just how complex the
storytelling in  The Matrix  really is. One more time... whoa... I’ll finish by making a quick stop on religion to tie it all back to this week's theme. Just naming a few, this film touches on the ideas of Hinduism,
Buddhism, Gnosticism, Judaism, and Christianity. And like philosophy, religion is so tightly woven into the script that discussing all of what you see here would take hours and hours. Obviously, I can’t go through all of it, but I will touch on
perhaps the most blatantly apparent idea in the series... Neo as a Christ figure. To
start, Neo has a “virgin” birth of sorts since he’s created by the machines and
brought into the real world after spending his entire life in an incubator pod, which, of course, is
symbolic of a womb. You also can’t ignore the prophecies of his coming and the
fact that he is the one chosen to free humanity from their bondage. Then, there's his name, Thomas Anderson. Thomas refers to Doubting
Thomas, as Neo never believed he was The One at first. Anderson can
literally mean “son of man” when broken up into its roots. Anyone familiar with the teachings of Christianity knows Jesus is often referred to by that name. And if you couple that name with Neo
meaning new, you get “new son of man.” You also can’t ignore the Judas/Cypher and
Morpheus/John the Baptist metaphors and the fact that Neo gets a very Christ-like death at the end of the series. If the philosophy/religious aspects of  The Matrix  really interest you, I highly suggest you check out  The Roots of the Matrix  DVD in the
Ultimate Collection. It goes into great detail about both all of the thematics of the series. Speaking of series, I think it's safe to say that the success of this trilogy, along with  The Lord of the Rings  and the  Star Wars  prequels (they made money, even if you didn't care for them) really made Hollywood overload on the whole idea of creating stories that could be told in a trilogy. The Matrix  is an amazing piece of work that you could pick apart and analyze for years. It's why it has become one of the most memorable pieces of modern science-fiction and has influenced countless filmmakers. I'll leave you with perhaps the most dazzling action sequence in the film. One that features an appearance by Ron Howard's brother, Clint: 
 
            Filed under:
            
                 The Matrix 
 
 
 
 
 Log in  or  sign up  to comment on this topic. 26 Comments First To Last Latest 1 2 SomeJerk on May 12, 2011 at 1:15 p.m. 
                The Matrix also stars Marcus Chong, no matter what the second-generation and on covers of the DVDs etc will try to make you believe :( Also, I haven't got everything nailed down perfectly, but it seems that (99% sure) Max Payne's take on bullet-time was demonstrated before the The Matrix was seen outside the studios, as a little side-note. A good read and a movie I will re-watch.. and then I will stop. It's one of the "this one has no sequels, this is it, this is an amazing film that's good even today" kind of things for me.
             litrock on May 12, 2011 at 1:15 p.m. 
                I always find it really easy to give the original Matrix a lot of shit in light of the sequels and how terribly tired almost everything it did became due to endless imitators. So thanks for writing this and reminding me just how significant that movie actually was. I might have to dig out my copy of it this weekend. Haven't seen it in years.
             Rorie on May 12, 2011 at 1:25 p.m. @SomeJerk :I always really liked him as Tank, even more than Harold Perrineau. Too bad he apparently  went a little crazy  and got himself written out of the sequels. NateDogg on May 12, 2011 at 1:29 p.m. 
                Good read.
             phoenix87x on May 12, 2011 at 1:35 p.m. 
                The first Matrix I would consider to be a defining moment in my life. I watched it every single day after school for almost a year strait. It is truly one of cinema's greatest tragedy's what happened with the sequels. I still can't believe this shit. Could you imagine a huge ass Powerade sign in the first Matrix? Venatio on May 12, 2011 at 1:37 p.m. 
                Damn I love The Matrix, great write-up
             VicRattlehead on May 12, 2011 at 1:39 p.m. 
                man the matrix really is just a great fucking film....  good read that thanks ThatFrood on May 12, 2011 at 1:41 p.m. 
                A really great article, I always love these, Godoski. And goddamn, I really want to go watch the matrix again. I don't think I can really get tired of it, and as critically acclaimed as it was and is, I almost feel like it still isn't critically acclaimed  enough. Mushir on May 12, 2011 at 2:10 p.m. 
                Andrew, I must say, I'm constantly stunned at how indepth and lengthy you manage to make these articles, and still keep them entertaining and interesting! I always enjoy reading them and most of the time it makes me want to watch the movie again. Also, holy shit, it looks like the new wiki editor is coming soon! FLStyle on May 12, 2011 at 2:22 p.m. 
                Always has been and always will be my favourite film of all time. Can't say much more than that really.
             frythefly on May 12, 2011 at 2:28 p.m. @Mushir : +1 on both accounts. The very close releases of     The Matrix ,    The Thirteenth Floor  in 1999 and   eXistenZ  in 1998as a result of the Y2K craze? Probably.
             PieINyourFACE on May 12, 2011 at 2:32 p.m. 
                Great article. I love the first Matrix, I wish I could say the same about the sequels... Tartarus on May 12, 2011 at 2:39 p.m. 
                Great article. I really love this film and thanks to ITV I can watch it at least once a week. Hugo Weaving is pretty amazing as Agent Smith thats something that strikes me every time I watch it. I might buy it on Blu Ray.
             ThePickle on May 12, 2011 at 2:51 p.m. 
                Funny, I was jonesing for a Matrix rewatch after my Religion teacher said it was basically a parable for one of the Gospels. 
             mbkish on May 12, 2011 at 3:06 p.m. 
                I will be reading/watching this later. Looks great, thanks!
             psychpunk on May 12, 2011 at 4:21 p.m. 
                I'm glad there's barely any mention of the sequels in this write up. Good read.
             SSully on May 12, 2011 at 4:24 p.m. 
                These are still some of the best article's on screened. I feel like you could write a book on some of these films you cover because there is so much depth and passion for the films in your writing. I love it. On topic I don't care what anyone says, I love the entire Matrix trilogy. I feel each film offers a different approach to the universe and I find myself loving each movie differently. Maybe my love for the films stem from how I grew up with these films. I was a teenager when the movies came out and I saw each one with my father in theaters and I remember walking out with my mind blown after each showing. I really need to pick up the ultimate collection on blu ray.  DG991 on May 12, 2011 at 5:18 p.m. 
                sequels were alright.  First matrix was magical though.  AndrewGodoski 
                    staff
                    
                 on May 12, 2011 at 5:18 p.m. @NateDogg : @Venatio : @VicRattlehead : @thatfrood : @Mushir : @frythefly : @PieINyourFACE : @Tartarus : @psychpunk : Thank you, sirs! AndrewGodoski 
                    staff
                    
                 on May 12, 2011 at 5:20 p.m. @SSully : It's funny, because my first draft of this feature was waaaayyy too long. Had to trim it down a bunch. First To Last Latest 1 2 
 
  AddThis Button BEGIN  
 
 
 
 
 
 Dig Deeper into The Matrix All his life, Thomas Anderson has felt that something is wrong with his world. Under the hacker alias "Neo", he scours the web for information on the elusive "Morpheus"...when he finally finds him, he learns the shocking answer to his eternal question: "What is the Matrix?" Edit/View the Wiki 
            Hit the Forums
            
                 (3 Posts) 
            Add/View Images
            
                 (70 Images) 
            Watch Some Videos
            
                 (1 Video) 
 
 
 Popular News 
 
 most viewed 
 most commented 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Why Are Movies With Heroes Becoming Bleaker? 
 Ever since Batman Begins, it seems like all our heroes are going dark. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Animated Short: Paperman 
 The animated short film captures the true spirit of love at first sight without using a single word 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The Week in Movie Posters  
 New Posters for Iron Man 3, Jack the Giant Slayer, From Up on Poppy Hill and The Lords of Salem  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Farewell, 30 Rock 
 30 Rock makes its way to television heaven tonight and the world loses one of its best comedies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Trailer: "Community" Season 4 
 "I remember when this show used to be about a Community College"  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Let's Talk About Justified: "The Bird Has Flown"  
 Raylan gets scammed but also some retribution in the end  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 VIDEO: Bad Ass Digest - Marvel Phase 2 
 Devin Faraci takes a look at Marvel Phase 2 and where it is going now  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Screeened Sports Stories: February 1st  
 A special Super Bowl edition giving you the information you need to watch commercials. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The Week in Movie Posters  
 New Posters for Iron Man 3, Jack the Giant Slayer, From Up on Poppy Hill and The Lords of Salem  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Animated Short: Paperman 
 The animated short film captures the true spirit of love at first sight without using a single word 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Why Are Movies With Heroes Becoming Bleaker? 
 Ever since Batman Begins, it seems like all our heroes are going dark. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Trailer: "Community" Season 4 
 "I remember when this show used to be about a Community College"  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Farewell, 30 Rock 
 30 Rock makes its way to television heaven tonight and the world loses one of its best comedies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 What to Watch: Thursday 
 The finale of 30 Rock is upon us and NBC's latest  Jekyll and Hyde drama "Do No Harm" premieres 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 What to Watch: Weekend 
 This weekend it's all about the pigskin as the Sunday series go on hiatus to escape getting crushed by the biggest game of the year 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 An Education: Simon Schama’s “Power of Art” 
 Simon Schama may be one of the most vivid broadcasters out there, and when it comes to documentaries about art, he is unmatched with this series. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Recent Reviews 
 
 Parker Review  Crisp, Efficient B Movie Is Just Right For VOD Hansel and Gretel: Witch Hunters Review  Even Dumber Than You're Expecting Broken City Review  Contemporary Riff On "Chinatown" That Isn't In Its League Gangster Squad Review  Theme Park Version of LA Confidential, The Untouchables and Other Real Movies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 European Space Agency Experiments with 3D Printing a Lunar Base Documentary Spotlights the "Men In Suits" The Road to 2160p: How 4K UltraHD Will Get into Your Home Quick Tip: One Easy Filter to Rid Your Inbox of Mucho Junk Mail 
 
 Top 5 Greatest Anime Soundtracks!  Turn down the lights and turn up the bass, 'cause things are getting all melodic for this countdown.  MICHIKO & HATCHIN #7 - - Watch & Learn KOTOURA-SAN #1 - - Special Review Do Power Levels Even MATTER In Anime?  
 
 
 
 
 
 
                            The Greatest Photos You Will See Today
                         
 
 
 
                            Terrifying OKCupid Profiles
                         
 
 
 
                            Today's Greatest Internet Links
                         
 
 
 
                            Colored Pencil Portraits of Fictional Families
                         
 
 
 
                            This Week's 20 Inappropriately Hilarious Tweets
                         
 
 
 
 
 
 help   |   terms and conditions   |   privacy   |   advertise   |   rss 
 
 
  BOTTOM BAR  
 
 
  Begin Quantcast tag  
 
 
 
 
 
  End Quantcast tag  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Submissions can take several hours to be approved. Save Changes Cancel 
 
